Monday destination doc (#876)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/monday.mdx

</div>

### Client-side events filtering

This setting lets you specify the event names which should be allowed to flow through to monday.com. Any other event is discarded.

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/monday-connection-settings-2.png" alt="Monday connection settings"/>

## Track

In Monday, you can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call to create an item in your board. You also need to provide the **Board ID** and **column to property mapping** in the RudderStack dashboard to create an item. 

You can also provide a group title (optional) to add a new item to any specific group.

<div class="infoBlock">
The column names provided in the mapping should be existing in your board. Only the column names provided in the mapping will be updated.
</div>

The following column types can be updated while creating a new item on the board:

- Status 
- Numbers 
- Text 
- Checkbox
- Country 
- Email 
- Item name 
- Link 
- Location 
- Long Text 
- Phone 
- Rating 
- World Clock

<div class="infoBlock">
<ul>
<li>If you map a checkbox column, the checkbox value will be set to true by default.</li>

> <li>The <code class="inline-code">timezone</code> for world clock must be in continent/city format, for example, Europe/London.</li>

Reviewer: Can we provide some website links? @ujjwal-ab

You can override the board ID mentioned in the RudderStack dashboard's connection setting by passing it in the `externalId` in the track call. A sample `track` call for the same is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("create an item", {
  "status": "Done",
  "latitude": "50.32",
  "longitude": "46.32",
  "address": "New York, USA",
  "mobile_number": "7383222323",
  "countryShortName": "IN"
}, {
  "externalId": [{
    "type": "boardId",
    "id": "3536273222"
  }],
});
```
<div class="infoBlock">
Make sure the event passed in the track call is added in the allowlist connection setting in the dashboard, otherwise it will be discarded.
</div>

### Property mapping

RudderStack maps the following event properties to the corresponding Monday properties:

| RudderStack property | Monday property | Presence |
| :-----| :------| :-------|
| `properties.name` | `item_name` | Required |
| `properties.countryCode` | `countryCode` | Required, if `country` column needs to be updated |
| `properties.emailText` | `text`  | Optional |

> | `properties.latitude` | `latitude`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated |
> | `properties.longitude` | `longitude`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `properties.latitude` | `lat`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated |
| `properties.longitude` | `lng`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated |
```

| `properties.countryCode` | `countryCode` | Required, if `country` column needs to be updated |  Must be passed in the ISO-2 country code format (a two-letter code), for example, US. |
| `properties.emailText` | `text`  | Optional | This can be used to add hyperlink to the email address text on the board.|
| `properties.latitude` | `latitude`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated | - |
| `properties.longitude` | `longitude`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated |- |
| `properties.countryShortName` | `countryShortName`  | Required, if `phone` column needs to be updated | Must be passed in the ISO-2 country code format (a two-letter code), for example, US. |

> | `properties.linkText` | `text`  | Optional | This can be used to add hyperlink to the email address text on the board.|

Reviewer: Aren't linkText and emailText same? They have the same description.

</div>

## Getting started

Before configuring monday.com as a destination in RudderStack, verify if the source platform is supported by Monday by referring to the table below:

| **Connection Mode** | **Web** | **Mobile** | **Server** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Device mode** | - | - | - |
| **Cloud mode** | **Supported**  | **Supported** | **Supported** |

<div class="infoBlock">
To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</Link> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to monday.com, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add a source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Monday**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure monday.com as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/monday-connection-settings.png" alt="Monday connection settings"/>

> - **API Token**: Enter the API token from [monday.com](https://auth.monday.com/auth/login_monday) dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **API Token**: Enter the API token from your [monday.com](https://auth.monday.com/auth/login_monday) dashboard.
```

> - **Board ID**: Enter the board ID from monday.com dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Board ID**: Enter your monday.com board ID.
```

- **Group Title**: Enter the group title of your board.

<div class="infoBlock">
For more information on getting these details, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> section below.
</div>

> - **Columns to property mapping**: Enter the column names from your board and the properties you want them to be mapped to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Columns to property mapping**: Enter the column names from your monday.com board and the corresponding RudderStack event properties to be mapped.
```

<div class="warningBlock">
The column names provided in the mapping should be existing in your board. Only the column names provided here will be updated.
</div>

### Client-side events filtering

This setting lets you specify the event names which should be allowed to flow through to monday.com. 

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/monday-connection-settings-2.png" alt="Monday connection settings"/>

<div class="warningBlock">
RudderStack will discard the events <strong>not included</strong> in the allowlist.
</div>

## Track

> You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call to create an item in your board. The **Board ID** and **column to property mapping** in the RudderStack dashboard are also required for the same.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call to create an item in your board. To do so, you need to specify the **Board ID** and **Columns to property mapping** in the dashboard settings.
```

> To add an item to a specific group, you can provide the group title.

Reviewer 3: How can one do this? A sample snippet or some example will be helpful. cc @ujjwal-ab 

Also, this sentence feels a bit out of place at the moment. The first sentence talks about the purpose of the `track` call (to create an item) followed by the requirement (board ID, etc.) . The next sentence (below) talks about how we can override the board ID using `externalId` and it feels like a natural continuation.

Reviewer 3: We can maybe have a separate sub-section called `Adding item to a specific group` and explain it in more detail using a sample snippet.

Reviewer 2: Actually, we are taking group titles from web-app only and not properties. So, this much is sufficient here I think. And no need to include that in the sample call.

Reviewer 2: And if the user provides `boardId` in `externalId` it will be prioritized over the one in config. That sentence means this only.

You can also override the board ID mentioned in the RudderStack dashboard by passing it in the `externalId` in the track call. A sample `track` call for the same is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("create an item", {
  "status": "Done",
  "latitude": "50.32",
  "longitude": "46.32",
  "address": "New York, USA",
  "mobile_number": "7383222323",
  "countryShortName": "IN"
}, {
  "externalId": [{
    "type": "boardId",
    "id": "3536273222"
  }],
});
```

<div class="warningBlock">
The event passed in the <code class="inline-code">track</code> call should be added in the <strong>Allowlist</strong> connection setting, otherwise it will be discarded.
</div>

### Supported column types

The following column types can be updated while creating a new item on the board. You can map the properties for these columns in the RudderStack dashboard:

| Column types | Notes |
| :-----| :-----| 
| Status | Pass the exact (existing) value. |

> | Numbers | Float or integer Format. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Numbers | Float or integer format. |
```

| Text | -|
| Checkbox| If you map a checkbox column, the checkbox value will be set to true by default. [Reference](https://developer.monday.com/api-reference/docs/checkbox#updating-the-checkbox-column).|

> | Country | Requires country code and country name both.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Country | Requires both the country name and code.  |
```

| Email | Pass the email address and optional text to link the email address.|
| Item name | -|
| Link | Pass the URL along with the text for the link.|
| Location | Pass the address along with latitude and longitude details.|
| Long Text | String can be up to 2000 characters. |

> | Phone | Pass the phone number along with country short name (a two-letter code, for example, US). |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Phone | Pass the phone number along with country short name (a two-letter code, for example, `US`). |
```

| Rating | Should be an existing (≤ maximum) rating value. |

> | World Clock | The timezone should be passed in the continent/city format, for example, Europe/London. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| World Clock | The timezone should be passed in the `continent/city` format, for example, `Europe/London`. |
```

### Property mapping

RudderStack maps the following event properties to the corresponding monday.com properties:

| RudderStack property | Monday property | Presence | Notes |
| :-----| :------| :-------| :-------|

> | `properties.name` | `item_name` | Required | Attributes passed here are mapped to the first column value by default. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `properties.name` | `item_name` | Required | By default, RudderStack maps the attributes passed here to the first column value. |
```

> | `properties.countryCode` | `countryCode` | Required, if `country` column needs to be updated |  Must be passed in the ISO-2 country code format (a two-letter code), for example, US. [Reference](https://developer.monday.com/api-reference/docs/country#updating-the-country-column). |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `properties.countryCode` | `countryCode` | Required, if `country` column needs to be updated. |  Must be passed in the ISO-2 country code format (a two-letter code), for example, `US`. [Reference](https://developer.monday.com/api-reference/docs/country#updating-the-country-column). |
```

> | `properties.countryShortName` | `countryShortName`  | Required, if `phone` column needs to be updated | Must be passed in the ISO-2 country code format (a two-letter code), for example, US. [Reference](https://developer.monday.com/api-reference/docs/country#updating-the-country-column). |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `properties.countryShortName` | `countryShortName`  | Required, if `phone` column needs to be updated. | Must be passed in the ISO-2 country code format (a two-letter code), for example, `US`. [Reference](https://developer.monday.com/api-reference/docs/country#updating-the-country-column). |
```

| `properties.latitude` | `lat`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated | - |

> | `properties.longitude` | `lng`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated |- |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `properties.longitude` | `lng`  | Required, if `location` column needs to be updated. |- |
```

> | `properties.emailText` | `text`  | Optional | Can be used to add hyperlink to the email address text on the board.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `properties.emailText` | `text`  | Optional | Can be used to add a hyperlink to the email address text on the board.|
```

> | `properties.linkText` | `text`  | Optional | Can be used to add hyperlink to the text on the board.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `properties.linkText` | `text`  | Optional | Can be used to add a hyperlink to the text on the board.|
```

## FAQ

### Where can I find the monday.com API token?

To get the monday.com API token, follow these steps:

1. Log into the [monday.com dashboard](https://auth.monday.com/auth/login_monday).
2. Click on your profile in the left navigation bar.
3. Select **Developer** > **My Access Tokens**, as shown:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/monday-api-token.png" alt="Monday API token in the dashboard"/>

### Where can I find the Board ID, Group Title and column names in monday.com dashboard?

> Follow these steps to find these:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To get your monday.com Board ID, Group Title, and column names, follow these steps:
```

**Board ID**

1. Log into the [monday.com dashboard](https://auth.monday.com/auth/login_monday).

> 2. Go to **Work management** in the left navigation bar and select your board. The board ID is displayed in the address bar.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Work management** in the left navigation bar and select your board. The board ID is displayed in the address bar, as seen in the below image.
```

**Group title**

> Group title is the name of your the groups in the board, for example, **Active deals** and **Closed Won** are the group titles in the below image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Group title is the name of your groups in the board. In the below image, **Active deals** and **Closed Won** seen are the group titles.
```

**Column names**

> The column titles in your board are the column names, for example, **Stage**, **Owner**, **Contacts**, and **Accounts** are the column names in the below image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The column titles in your board are the column names. In the below image, **Stage**, **Owner**, **Contacts**, and **Accounts** are the column names.
```
